.TH FREQUENT-CRON 1 "2026-04-12" "frequent-cron" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
frequent-cron \- run shell commands at millisecond intervals
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B frequent-cron
.I command
.RI [ options ]
.br
.B frequent-cron
.BR \-\-frequency =\fIms\fR
.BR \-\-command =\fIcmd\fR
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B frequent-cron
is a daemon and service manager that executes shell commands at sub-second
intervals. It supports both direct execution (legacy mode) and managed
services with automatic boot-start integration on Linux (systemd), macOS
(launchd), FreeBSD (rc.d), and Windows (SCM).
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B run
Run a command at the specified frequency. Requires
.B \-\-frequency
and
.BR \-\-command .
.TP
.B install \fIname\fR
Register a named service. Requires
.B \-\-frequency
and
.BR \-\-command .
The service is configured to start automatically at boot.
.TP
.B remove \fIname\fR
Unregister a named service and remove its boot-start configuration.
.TP
.B start \fIname\fR
Start a registered service.
.TP
.B stop \fIname\fR
Stop a running service.
.TP
.B status \fR[\fIname\fR]
Show status of all services, or a specific service if
.I name
is given.
.TP
.B list
List all registered services.
.TP
.B logs \fIname\fR
Show logs for a service.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Run and Install Options
.TP
.BR \-\-frequency =\fIms\fR
The timer frequency in milliseconds. Required for
.B run
and
.BR install .
.TP
.BR \-\-command =\fIcmd\fR
The shell command to execute every interval. Required for
.B run
and
.BR install .
.TP
.BR \-\-synchronous " [=true]"
Whether each invocation blocks subsequent calls. Defaults to true.
.TP
.BR \-\-pid\-file =\fIpath\fR
Write the daemon process ID to
.IR path .
Only available with
.BR run .
.TP
.BR \-\-jitter =\fIms\fR
Maximum timing variance in milliseconds. The actual interval becomes
frequency +/\- jitter.
.TP
.BR \-\-jitter\-distribution =\fIdist\fR
Distribution for jitter:
.B uniform
or
.BR normal .
Defaults to
.BR uniform .
.TP
.BR \-\-fire\-probability =\fIp\fR
Probability of firing on each tick (0.0\-1.0). Defaults to 1.0.
.SS Common Options
.TP
.BR \-\-data\-dir =\fIpath\fR
Override the default data directory path.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display help information.
.SH LEGACY MODE
If the first argument starts with a dash, frequent-cron operates in legacy
mode, equivalent to the
.B run
command. This preserves backward compatibility with earlier versions.
.SH DATA DIRECTORY
.TP
.B Linux, FreeBSD
~/.local/share/frequent\-cron (user) or /var/lib/frequent\-cron (root)
.TP
.B macOS
~/Library/Application Support/frequent\-cron
.TP
.B Windows
%LOCALAPPDATA%\\frequent\-cron
.PP
The data directory contains the service database
.RB ( frequent\-cron.db ),
log files
.RB ( logs/ ),
and PID files
.RB ( pids/ ).
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Direct execution (legacy mode)
.nf
frequent\-cron \-\-frequency=1000 \-\-command="/path/to/script.sh"
.fi
.SS Service management
.nf
frequent\-cron install myservice \-\-frequency=500 \-\-command="echo tick"
frequent\-cron start myservice
frequent\-cron status
frequent\-cron logs myservice
frequent\-cron stop myservice
frequent\-cron remove myservice
.fi
.SS With jitter and probability
.nf
frequent\-cron run \-\-frequency=1000 \-\-command="./check.sh" \\
    \-\-jitter=200 \-\-jitter\-distribution=normal \\
    \-\-fire\-probability=0.8
.fi
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Error (invalid arguments, service not found, etc.).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cron (8),
.BR systemctl (1),
.BR launchctl (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Steve Sperandeo and contributors.
